Business
How supplier ads imp?
What's our role?

WSP - suppy side

Wayfair - e-commerce platform - no manufacture
US, Canada, Germany, UK

Supply chain we own, 3rd party supply chain
e-commerce platform
	supplier bring products to be sold

ecosystem - $800M - ad campaigns
	
We don't own inventory - Unlike Amazon
	When bad times hit - we have an edge over them (we don't hold inventory)
		NO own capital - only platform
		Supplier do discounts
		We do marketing
	
Supplier chain problem reflects - it can impact the company

We are not competing with amazon
	1. Amazon - <= $100
	2. Wayfair >= $100 (sofa, mattress, ...) - preferred for online shopping
		1. Flexible return policy
		
Wayfair catalog - $22 Million (Rugs, wall art (1M), mattress, ...)
	70% white labeled - name of the brand and supplier are not visible - Our brand
		Our brands - 6 brands show our own brand - name of the supplier and brand are not visible on the website (70% - we don't know the supplier) - Most money is made with these products
	30% - big brands - GE, matteress brands, ...
	
Flywheel
	Suppliers - come to platform for online sales
		They use wayfair recipe
	If shoppers have better experience, they make more money
	
	Invest in ads
		We get ad dollars
		We hire people
		We makes sure shopper experience
		
		We get money even if shoppers are browsing
		
Promotional calendar
	Supplier gives discount
	
Catalogue is rich - it is made sure - options, price, ...

WSP, WSS - Clicks are charged (not charged for impressions)

Funnel:
	Awareness - Brands want creation of awareness (they want customers to think of their brand)
		Homepage ad
		Banner ad
		
	Consideration - WSS
		An alternative to top brands
	Conversion
		Sponsored products - When customer is about the select the product, you want to advertise your product
		
Before customer interacts - suppliers logs in, campaigns (group of products for advertising)
	- product
	- targeting
	- how much they are willing to pay
	
	Realtime and batch jobs (45 minutes - brings all data from campaigns, eriches catalog with more product data, inventory, dsplay skus, price conversions, ... and stores them in Elasticsearch or Aerospike)
	As the customer hits the website, the data is ready (search or browse)
		Search - partners in S&R (different org)
			Call goes to them for grid, - give products
			their engine calls orch engine - kruse
			kruse uses Vulcan
			
			192 candidates - ranking, optimization, selection, inventory check, -> 48 products and where we want
				we make ad generation, bid decisioning, inventory check, ...
				dynamicity - area rugs 12 ads, ...
				
			Auction runs - who will go to what spots
				If clicked how much do they pay
				
			When we build the grid, a bunch of events are sent
				Auction events
				Candidate generation events
				...
				
				over scribe (built on Kafka) - event management platform
				
				Data is stored in BigQuery
				
				When customer clicks or sees the ad - we fire click, or impressions events
						data goes to
							RT system
							GBQ
							
				Budget set for campaigns
					Click - decrements amount
					
					when spend becomes 0 - API removes ads from caches
				
				Many batch jobs & data flow jobs - calcualtes performance of campaign
					Clicks
					spend
					money spend
					orders generated
					...
					
				Feedback to suppliers
				
				Charges
					second price auction - 
						Quality score - (multiplied with willing to spend) - final charge